---
layout: post
title:  "COMM10"
date:   2020-07-21 22:49:53 +0800
categories: jekyll update
---

# Orality and Literacy

**Date:** 2020-01-17



**“NO READ, NO WRITE”**

- Implies illiterate and uneducated.



#### Civilised vs Savage

- Labelled cultures **different** from them as *primitive* and *savage*.
- tendency to identify and earlier state of affairs negatively, noting a lack or deficiency.
- Books like:
  - The Mind of Primitive Man - Franz Boas
  - The Savage Mind - Claude Levi-Strauss
- Avoid labelling pre-colonial cultures as savage, because these people have developed cultures.
- *Primitive should be replaced by ‘without writing’ -* suggests chirographic bias. 



#### **Walter J. Ong’s Propositions**

- We should called them *Oral Cultures* - less invidious and more positive term.
- Oral cultures want to achieve literacy as soon as possible — literacy opens possibilities to the word and to human existence unimaginable without writing.
- Orality can produce creations beyond the reach of literates. 
- Orality is never completely eradicable: reading a text oralizes it.
- Orality and the growth of literacy out of orality are necessary for the volition of consciousness.
- The shift from orality to writing intimately interrelates with more psychic and social developments than we have yet noted.



#### **Advantages of Orality**

- Immediacy of sound is clearer.
- It is more communal.



“Human society first formed itself with the aid of oral speech, becoming literate very lates in……” TANGINA WAITSA



#### **Timeline of Transition from Oral to Writing**

300000 years ago - Homo Sapiens

40000 B.C.E - Cave Paintings

- Earliest recording of any images.
- Indonesia

6600 B.C. - Jiahu Symbols

- China

5300 B.C. - Vinca Signs

- Romania(Eastern Europe)

3100 B.C. - Hieroglyphs and 

- Earliest form of writing, in the sense it is readable.
- Pictographic

2600 B.C. - Indus Valley

1200 B.C - Ancient China

300 B.C. - Mesoamerica

- Logographic

1459 - Invention of printing press by Johannes Gutenberg inventor = world domination.

- Books cheaper to produce.
- Information became more available.
- World domination because it made education and information more available. 
  - It made the world smaller and more open.
- 20th Century - Electronic Age = “Secondary orality”
  - Television and radio spread more information orally.
  - We have now entered an age when orality <-> literacy.



#### Book Source

Orality and Literacy - Walter J. Ong (1982)